# The Blockchain and AI

In my last post, [The Myth of the 'Black Box' AI](https://www.bitpost.app/u/zachrobertson/the-myth-of-the-black-box-ai-WJaCmu), I talked about some misunderstandings in pop-culture around AI and concluded with the thought that AI is in fact not a 'Black Box' but instead just math. In this post I want to explore the relationship between AI and blockchains and how the two could benefit from each other.

The main use of blockchains is trustless verification. With a decentralized blockchain that uses a proof of work consensus mechanism, the trust in our interactions is based off of the mathematics of cryptography (assuming no one is a bad actor *That is the physics degree talking, it just makes thing easier if we ignore people in this equation*). The idea of trustless verification is important because it is one of the major detractors for AI right now, specifically the use of deep neural networks. We do not trust the institutions that created the models, we do not know what data they used to train them, and we do not know what kind of predictions they make. All of this culminates in us having no trust in the AI themselves (probably for good reason).

This leads me into my point about the relationship between blockchains and AI, if blockchains are designed to remove trust from our transactions and we have a problem trusting the institutions that build and deploy AI solutions than there is huge potential for the use of blockchains to remove trust from the AI equation. This can be done in a few ways, when collecting data you could have all data stored on chain, or at least the links to the data collections on chain. Then you could upload the model architecture to the chain as well,  with this model architecture you can audit what the inputs and outputs of the model will be, effectively telling us what *kind* of decisions the model is capable of making. With the combination of data and model architecture you could train the model and verify that the model being used by a service is the same as the model you trained yourself. There are many other areas where AI could benefit from blockchain technology, for instance, the proof of work consensus mechanism uses constant mathematical operations to find the next hash for each block, with all but the one successful operation effectively being a wasted operation. We could, in theory, replace these wasted operations with operations that train models, or audit existing models for deviations. There are many options to explore but these are the two that interest me the most.

Day 2 of the BitPost 30 day challenge.

Thanks for reading.
Zach
